<h4>The Burqa: Between Legislation and Condemnation</h4>

France 24  
17 December 2010  
Presented by Taoufik Mjaied  
Guests: Mahbouba Ben Nasser and Randa Kassis

<b>Summary:</b>

In a compelling episode of France 24, Randa Kassis and Maghbouba Ben Nasr engaged in a nuanced discussion on the proposed French legislation to ban the wearing of the burqa (or niqab) in public spaces. Framed within the broader context of French republican values and _laïcité_, the debate explored the deeper societal questions raised by the measure—identity, gender, freedom of choice, and the limits of state intervention.

The debate also confronted the post-9/11 securitisation of veiling practices. Randa Kassis pointed out how fear surrounding the burqa intensified following high-profile incidents involving women in explosive belts, highlighting that public anxiety is often more sociological than theological. She cautioned against conflating attire with extremism and underscored the risk of fuelling Islamophobia through reductive policies.

Further discussion addressed the historical purpose of the burqa in suppressing female visibility of controlling male desire—an approach seen as incompatible with modern ideals of personal autonomy and social maturity. The speakers warned against the use of charged terms like 'fundamentalism' or 'extremism', which risk oversimplifying complex behaviours and alienating communities. Ultimately, they advocated dialogue and engagement over rigid legislative solutions, urging a careful balance between upholding secular principles and respecting cultural and religious diversity.

<p></p>
<center>
<div style="display: flex; justify-content: center; position:relative;width: 100%;height: 300px;"><iframe
    src="https://iframe.mediadelivery.net/embed/455361/32737f7d-8494-4ea3-bdd5-0b245ab453e1?autoplay=false&loop=false&muted=false&preload=true&responsive=true"
    loading="lazy" style="border:0;height:100%;width: 520px;"
    allow="accelerometer;gyroscope;autoplay;encrypted-media;picture-in-picture;" allowfullscreen="true"></iframe>
</div>
</center>  
<p></p>
